BEDROOM REQS:
1) Entrance: A bedroom needs at least two methods of egress, so it should be accessible from the house (commonly through a door), and then have one other exit (window or door).

2) Ceiling Height: A bedroom ceiling needs to be at least 7 ft tall. It’s okay if some portions of the ceiling are below this level, but at least 50% of the ceiling needs to be a minimum of 7 ft in height. Most ceilings tend to be at least 8 ft tall, so ceiling height is not usually an issue (R305.1).

3) Escape: A bedroom must have one other method of egress beyond the entrance point. A door to the exterior works as an exit point, and so does a window. According to the International Residential Code, a bedroom window can be between 24 and 44 inches from the floor, it needs at least 5.7 square feet for the opening, and it must measure no less than 24 inches high and 20 inches wide (R310.1).

4) Size: The room should be at least 70 sq ft, and more specifically the room cannot be smaller than 7 feet in any horizontal direction (sorry, that 1’x70′ room won’t work) (R304.2 / R304.4).

BATHROOM REQS:
FULL BATH: sink, shower, tub, toilet
various size requirements for each utility

PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTIONS:
primary place of residence 
church exemption
religious, hospital, scientific, and/or charitable purposes
Current law provides a basic exemption of $100,000 on the principal place of residence for veterans with specified
disabilities or for unmarried surviving spouses of deceased disabled veterans. A one-time filing is required. This
exemption may be raised to $150,000 if the applicant meets the income limit of $40,000. Annual filing is required
for the $150,000 exemption. The income limit and both the exemption amounts are adjusted annually for inflation. 
Growing crops are exempt. No filing is required. Grapevines are exempt for the first three years and orchard trees
for the first four years after the season in which they are planted. Date palms under eight years of age are exempt. 
new construction is excluded if it is to increase accessibility

